Sharing is scaring article (#22)
RedHatPerf/redhatperf.github.io: content/post/method-data-scalability/index.adoc

This article explores how resource shortages impact Java application performance, focusing on the scalability challenges introduced by Tiered Compilation.

# Understanding Tiered Compilation

First, let’s recall a key mechanism employed by OpenJDK Hotspot to optimize the application’s code: Tiered Compilation.

Tiered compilation in the HotSpot JVM balances application startup speed and runtime performance by using https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2021/06/23/how-jit-compiler-boosts-java-performance-openjdk[multiple levels] of code execution and optimization.
Initially, it uses an **interpreter** for immediate execution. As methods are invoked frequently, it employs a fast compiler i.e. **C1** to generate native code.
Over time, methods that are heavily used ("hot spots") are further optimized with the optimizing compiler i.e. **C2**, which applies advanced optimizations for maximum performance.

This tiered approach ensures quick application responsiveness while progressively optimizing performance-critical code paths. The name "HotSpot" reflects this focus on dynamically identifying and optimizing hot spots in code execution for efficiency.

> What’s less known about tiered compilation is that the C2 compiler can be very CPU intensive and, when it doesn’t have enough resources, its activity https://jpbempel.github.io/2020/05/22/startup-containers-tieredcompilation.html[affects startup time].

Reviewer: Just a minor but if I am not wrong the C2 compilation could also affect runtime performance and not only the startup, if so I think it would be good to clarify that here
```suggestion
What’s less known about tiered compilation is that the C2 compiler can be very CPU intensive and, when it doesn’t have enough resources, its activity could affect application performances including https://jpbempel.github.io/2020/05/22/startup-containers-tieredcompilation.html[startup time].
```
